---
title: 2
type: sheet
draft: true
date: 2019-07-17T19:24:14-04:00
authors:
- devin
---
<div class="sheet__item">
  
</div>
<div class="sheet__response">
    <p>
        It's definitely true that a dominant pattern of human behavior is the sacrifice of agency in exchange for comfort and security. As T implies, our incarceration system doubles as a basic social safety net, which is dangerous but intriguing. What really captured my critical attention in T's post, though, is the notion that people love to take "jail selfies" in Conrad's installation. This reveals in the viewers of the installation a pathos of distance that places the incarcerated
        
        It also surfaces a related thought that I had recently: we seem to live in a culture that fetishizes the anonymous and constant surveillance of everyone.
    </p>
    <p>
        Let's lean more into this idea of the <em>social pathos of distance</em>. The social pathos of distance is an ideological template for the generation of exclusionary sociopolitical practices and institutions. It establishes a master–slave relationship between social groups. It is adopted vertically across all classes in decadent societies in order to enforce unbalanced social structures and dualistic/deterministic value systems. This pathos produces violent and objectifying modalities of vision (cf. bell hooks' <em>Black Looks: Race and Representation</em> — <em>"there is violence in looking"</em>) that limit or deny the agency of other subjects and matter.
    </p>
    <p>
        The pathos of distance strips 

        The pathos of distance emerges in the form of ideology and is reproduced through cultural artifacts. I'd like to look at one of those artifacts right now: the contemporary American reality show.
    </p>
    <p>
        The reality show is a provocative example of the pathos of distance and the way it leads us to fetishize panoptic entertainment. The basic mechanics of panoptic reality shows include the following:
        <ul>
            <li>The subjects of the show are somehow "othered" from the viewer</li>
            <li>THe viewer perceives themselves as somehow more "real" </li>
        </ul>
    </p>
    <p>
        The alienation apparatus used by these shows is simple: the show presents an alternative, selective version of reality through which we interpret our social and cultural experiences. In doing so, it distorts our perception of the subjects' actual reality and allows us to comfortably establish a pathos of distance that transforms the show's subjects into cultural objects that we can critique or, as most Americans do, simply criticize.
    </p>
    <p>
        I know this is getting lengthy, so I'll finish up, but here's what's really interesting and concerning. Conrad's <em>Jail, Jail</em> and reality television shows are examples of "panoptic entertainment." I would define panoptic entertainment as any type of entertainment centered around the viewer anonymously monitoring, exploitating, or manipulating any involved subject. In other words, it's entertainment that models itself after Bentham's Panopticon. I don't have an example ready, but I think really any reality TV show will follow this model:

        <ul>
            <li>The subject is semi-captive and allowed to roam free but made aware that they are being constantly monitored.</li>
            <li>The camera's violent line of sight imitates the line of disciplinary sight drawn from the center the Panopticon's tower to a subjct in the distance.</li>
            <li></li>
        </ul>
        
        
        
        
        
        The cameraman is phenomenologically an extension of the camera, and therefore also inherits the role of hidden viewer. Here's the kicker: the viewer, by subscribing to the 
    </p>
        
</div>