---
title: 2
type: sheet
date: 2019-07-29T22:03:30-04:00
draft: true
authors:
- tanvi
---
<div class="sheet__item">
 <em> “One must never place a loaded rifle on the stage if it isn’t going to go off.” <small> — Anton Chekhov </small> </em>
</div>
<div class="sheet__response">



<p>In <em>A Fine Balance</em>, Rohinton Mistry outlines the vital agency of the <em>gaddi</em>, a platform utilized by the beggar Shankar for locomotion. Shankar is a disabled man who rests and propels himself around on the rolling platform. It is given to him by the Beggarmaster, a man who controls and manages the beggars for the whole city and is responsible for setting up the system in which the beggars operate. </p>

<p> The gaddi’s relationship with Shankar, Beggarmaster and the reader shifts throughout the book. </p>

<p> While on a macro level the gaddi remains a clear reminder of the social hierarchy, it still labors for the benefit of Shankar. The agency of the object thus is infidel with the events it finds itself in. As much as the circumstance of an object is inherited, it’s identity remains in flux with the agency that’s inflicted upon it. And in turn, the object emits the same vitality. </p>

<p> To fathom a vital ontology, it’s critical to extend the groundwork of what constitutes an object and how it is repeatedly altered by the different events and forces it is subjected to. Historically, the status of objecthood is not limited to inanimate matter. If the object is the position of labor, humans as tools complicate that. The subjection of human beings to a hierarchy that ‘employs’ them as a means to an end, result in objectification. This is reflected in an ontology that underscores the performance of labor in a manner that seeks to reinstate social hierarchy.
 Perhaps, what’s said of as a thing is a thing. </p>

<p> The Beggarmaster judges what modifications and mutilations should be performed on the beggars to maximize the monetary empathy they receive by pedestrians. As Shankar propels himself through life, he is practicality is fused with that of the gaddi. And so he is cremated with it. </p>

</div>