---
title: 1
type: sheet
draft: true
date: 2019-12-01T01:21:43-05:00
authors:
- theflowingsky
---
<div class="sheet__item">
  <blockquote><p>The aesthetic value of a commodity finds its diminution in its own proliferation.</p><cite>me, lol</cite></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="sheet__response">
  <p>
    During my recent job search, I struggled to find roles that mesh with the meaning I've ascribed to the term "design." Every "designer" role I came across was qualified with a specialization: "Product," "UI/UX," "Graphic," "Visual," "Researcher," "Engineer," "Technologist," "Hybrid." The proliferation of creative specializations is likely an effect of technological development and the historical development of material conditions (i.e. dialectics).
  </p>
  <p>
    In view of historical trends toward technical specialization, one is left to wonder: what place does "design" proper, that is, design as a general approach to problem solving, have in society today? To tease that apart, I'd like to construct a division between two types of activity: first, as a <em>general activity of life</em>; second, as a <em>vocational</em> activity.
  </p>
  <p>
    In the first case, design activity is <em>vernacular</em> (solving local problems with local resources) and <em>ambient</em> (over time, local solutions accumulate around community needs to form local traditions). Vernacular design produces everyday things that we often take for granted, e.g. certain tools, cultural rituals, architectural patterns, strategies for survival and mobility, and ways of living. It resists the modern notion of the "auteur" (the singular mastermind artist) by distributing authorship between creative actors across time. This resistance to authorship looks something like "cultural white noise," a cacophony of distributed creative activity that culminates in an average tone: <em>the commons</em>.
  </p>
  <p>
    In the second case, design activity is still additive to culture, but its products are far more calculated and specific than those of vernacular creative activity. Vocational design is not so dissimilar from "tradecraft" in that it invents and internalizes specialized techniques and ideas that allow a creative actor to target larger and more complex problems, solving them in less time and with a greater degree of authorship and control over the final form. This is not unlike the specialized language used in philosophy: it's a shorthand for efficiently reaching goals, but it requires a person to learn the canon before they can effectively engage in related activity.
  </p>
  <p>
    Both forms of design — vernacular and vocational — are necessary and valuable creative activities. Additionally, while the increasing number of specializations within vocational design create zones of alienation within the design industry, this allows problems to be more effectively and immediately serviced. It is worth noting that there is also a historical trend toward democratizing vocational design, but I won't address that here.
  </p>
  <p>
    TODO:
    Derrida — "Design" means nothing anymore because of the tenuoous connections between the specializations developed in the last 20 years. Differance tells us that words are defined in relation to each other, in a continously unfolding circuit of meaning transmission — so it stands that if hyperspecific qualification of a specific word begins to overpower the word itself through proliferation, the word itself loses meaning through dissolution: the more solute added, the less solvent
  </p>
</div>